This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
In chapters 24, 89, and 90, we substituted a capital L for the symbol
for the British pound, a unit of currency.
rolling; for in Dan. HVALT is arched or vaulted." --WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could
clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your
tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends
which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought
great security, and there sleeps." --MONTAIGNE. --APOLOGY FOR RAIMOND
"The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise."
proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship
can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains....
baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren."
Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was
"If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
--COLNETT'S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE
grand-children will go for bread." --OBED MACY'S HISTORY OF NANTUCKET.
"I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form
"She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed
assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828.
again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem
threatening it with instant destruction;--'Stern all, for your lives!'"
as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a
But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores
For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is
of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all
And as for going as cook,--though I confess there is considerable glory
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
"GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES.
Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others
were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and
have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting
itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on
and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of
for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching that place
As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,--rather weary for me, when I struck
went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for
open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the
the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little
spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.
quietly toasting for bed. "In judging of that tempestuous wind called
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and
withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for
room, received for answer that his house was full--not a bed unoccupied.
that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in
made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled
sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how
being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised
sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
"Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a
near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the
leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
"I'll break it for him," said I, now flying into a passion again at this
towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion,
sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be easy,
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the
for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that. Why,
with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers
for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty
eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while
bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the
for his Congo idol.
Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an
"Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!" shouted I. "Landlord! Watch!
For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking
say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.
there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the
slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to lie
conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For
bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen with
but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for
the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm--unlock his
staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next
proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns.
polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had
But as for Queequeg--why, Queequeg sat there among them--at the head of
say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have cordially
sallied out for a stroll.
scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain
two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a
place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this
In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
chance for promotion, it seems--aye, a stove boat will make me an
me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and
stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without
certainly had not come in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down
man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and
manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity,
of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this
withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful
helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling
What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's
the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.
     "My song for ever shall record
command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
that's bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded
board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment
five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and
out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?' Oh! how that harmless
question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.
him. 'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
passage money how much is that?--I'll pay now.' For it is particularly
way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. 'Point out my
refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid
man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,
they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great tempest was
appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest
weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for
clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing to
you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model
for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.
for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come down
He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his
mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man
out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this
anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I
How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential
small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For this
is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this
We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether
love once comes to bend them. For now I liked nothing better than to
of such serene household joy then. I no more felt unduly concerned for
untutored countrymen. For at bottom--so he told me--he was actuated by a
poor Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he, it's a wicked world in
unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan
he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for
To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt
for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not
for a block, I settled my own and comrade's bill; using, however, my
so much--for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of
for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.
stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this
King, Queequeg's father. Grace being said,--for those people have their
proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;--taking it I suppose for a
second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, for ever
and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a
lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff.
But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to
a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog,
asked for water--fresh water--something to wipe the brine off; that
you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some
to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that
to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in
the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his; he
chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so
Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he
of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It's ominous, thinks I. A
making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing
further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and
"A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?"
Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two," disappeared.
"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we can make out a supper for us
its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you
began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning happening
sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg" (for
it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and
Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it
myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.
little bedroom--for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or Ramadan,
day; HOW it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself
I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years' voyages--The
looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very
ship for us.
You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a
to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed.
jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for
Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority,
in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw
windward;--for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed
out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
inclined for it?"
For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not
by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same
one in a whole nation's census--a mighty pageant creature, formed for
a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all
But unlike Captain Peleg--who cared not a rush for what are called
vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of
exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was
studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain
to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the
lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out
on it, not to speak of my three years' beef and board, for which I would
us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, "LAY not up for
seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,
his eyes; and then went on mumbling--"for where your treasure is, there
"I am going to put him down for the three hundredth," said Peleg, "do ye
oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.
for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
for the three hundredth lay."
to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to have a look at
the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it
off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's
I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know what,
my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the
day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I
alike--for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma'am!--Mistress! murder! Mrs.
"Wood-house!" cried I, "which way to it? Run for God's sake, and fetch
"Get the axe! For God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry
nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed--"No! I haven't seen
"I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled. Go for the
little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of
do--for all my polite arts and blandishments--he would not move a peg,
get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can't last for ever, thank God,
"For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and have
round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not get into
cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless
for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and
"No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew the
man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand;
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the
sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn
sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove
the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when
more time for an uninterrupted look at him.
all the better off for it. A soul's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon."
"HE'S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort
Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;
don't know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a
you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
must be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon
for several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the
fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
of pickles for the steward's pantry; another time with a bunch of quills
for the chief mate's desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a
roll of flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never did
Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him
to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been
Jury." And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for
were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the
of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
"What's that for, Queequeg?"
gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a
spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain
well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of
service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable
quit the ship for good with the pilot.
But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to
the crew sprang for the handspikes.
in, for he never piloted any other craft--Bildad, I say, might now
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching
perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a
this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;
very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a
for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!"
voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into peril; her only friend her
For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of
as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round
I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,
catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their
to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the
for already she is on the threshold.
*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered
I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a
ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their functions is
general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which
Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come,
and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like
through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for
overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor
for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting
him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill
whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that
write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he
thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black
readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a
for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.
eyes--for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their
most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that
beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for,
For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen
and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the
gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather,
muttered--then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would
brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted
mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of 'em."
for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck,
Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that
his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May,
absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man,
like going down into one's tomb,"--he would mutter to himself--"for an
it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when
Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these,
the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy,
"I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,"
for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the
after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
that for, I should like to know? Who's made appointments with him in
game--Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be
When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the
of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe.
him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of
This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapours
stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it,
account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can't
"If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!
Look ye--there's something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a
exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment
which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and
Cain of his race, bearing for his mark that style upon his back. From
names for a few sorts.
the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached
right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.
name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm
features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one.
quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is
fishermen's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best.
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment--as
from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for
a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor." An Irish
of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea;
BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).--This gentleman is famous for
his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts
bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but
fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for
crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their
primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
making use of them for other and more private ends than they were
dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what it will,
in themselves, more or less paltry and base. This it is, that for ever
must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on
seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
state transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who
the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they
noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like
been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this
marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for
is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.
known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. For what
Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from
floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be
whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it
was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for
For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical
to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight. In
London smoke, token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for
not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole
drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the
never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner--for
all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks, and
of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its
Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the
stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for
(also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for
infesting those waters; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from
for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed
experiments in this crow's-nest, with a small compass he kept there for
discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned "binnacle
seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used
are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But
"Sing out for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
"a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water;
"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a
him--him--" faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!" Then tossing both arms, with
shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and
excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
game for Moby Dick?"
"I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain
"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for? methinks it
man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that,
and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From this one poor hunt,
nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up with
within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly
"In vain!" cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well. For did ye three but
his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, THAT
to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would
gift, might readily have prophesied it--for when I clapped my eye upon
1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the
call the watch. I've the sort of mouth for that--the hogshead mouth.
DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I
comes the music; now for it!
by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,
him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers;
solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were
And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other
horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do
wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the
of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen
incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor
impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself
as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets
ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with every
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came
Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long
that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on
isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he
was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the
having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this
this, whiteness has been even made significant of gladness, for among
the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of
throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all
hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence
thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no
deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was
account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then,
whiteness--though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White
saddest city thou can'st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black
colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness,
principle of light, for ever remains white or colourless in itself, and
to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed
ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye--nothing else. Look to the
head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw
others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before
to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated,
     columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each
whales may with great confidence be looked for.
for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the
Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the
in the one technical phrase--the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then,
for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried,
lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round,
loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There
to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming,
soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the
characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no
what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated
vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature
into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar
pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for
whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
lost a boat's crew. For God's sake, be economical with your lamps and
spilled for it.
Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith
ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock;
for their sufferings." Again: "At all events, the whole circumstances
denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war
impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a
a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little circumstance
our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was not
from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. And, indeed,
the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the
Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength,
open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for several
marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for
vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty
well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly
inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long
present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious
human reasoning, Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove
for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a
he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that
background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted meditation
Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
they inhale its fickleness--and when retained for any object remote and
employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the
breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the
for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and
thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without
atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected
For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be
for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale
for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had
the men selected for shipkeepers--that is, those not appointed to the
The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side
some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;--a race notorious for
for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah
for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men--all hearts
queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for
across Stubb's bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the
what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge
of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for
matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious
boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen
level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
shoulders for a pedestal.
for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of,
seasons for that.
black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll sign over to you my
merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;--merry's the word.
his--these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed
over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen
the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were dashed
we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical
potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for small
"Certain. I've lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape
me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an
foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind
and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his
here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils
comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any
the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving
his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the
for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such
the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what emotions,
spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was a most
disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and somehow
further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on.
by one self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there
for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely
spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their
soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had
During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the
hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand
ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted
Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he
cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while
For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would
are equally long absent from home. For one of them may have received a
some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets.
chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors,
do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; for your
each other's rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea,
away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, when they
question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are
no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I conclude,
Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
BOATS' CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE
in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of
this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or
of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was
For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated
captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck
some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the
connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,
their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many
as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, though in his
her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their whole
altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in
full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie
ye what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it! he had best cut away
"'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney,
comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
"Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for
murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such
"For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room
For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan
"'Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in
for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look
billiard-tables, and for ever open--and "Corrupt as Lima." So, too,
Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile,
resentment. But Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them
for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby
for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the
Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days
devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he
opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for
that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender.
fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; particularly as
and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one
and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.
"Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and
all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a
fully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along
he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present,
"'But as for you, ye carrion rogues,' turning to the three men in the
rigging--'for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;' and,
rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up. Take
that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.'
"For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
"'But I must,'--and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation. Still, no
not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,
lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the
berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
"'Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me.'
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been
and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking to
war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.
that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
"'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt;
"'I am bound to Tahiti for more men.'
him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially
embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he
"'Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
"'Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian
taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the
old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder's whale
into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.
Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for
whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one
such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent
reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the
Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan
has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale,
thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that
Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of
For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs
But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details
the monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale
voyager (I honour him for a veteran), but in so important a matter it
was certainly an oversight not to have procured for every crystal a
lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its
will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on
of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that
by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is
old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for
With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for
largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that we
paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked
to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even
so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the
deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
and swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden
strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean
for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
orders for lowering.
spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for
his only food. For though other species of whales find their food above
for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to
sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity
too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must
entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in thickness; for
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the
minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for
line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in
wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
