induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through
all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing
Stubb's producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite was
here changed places--stem for stern--a staggering business truly in that
bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then ranging up for
and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing
innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from
Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood
arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called
that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl
fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many
that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the
the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however
simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied
moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call
the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing
it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust
to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
for a screw.
is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; and
his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something
"Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat
you be angel; for all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.
for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge to help
den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
can't hear noting at all, no more, for eber and eber."
Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my
the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the
"Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
go.--Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast--don't forget."
court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be
seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in
his cellar against a coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that
provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized
the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very
until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for
round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin,
*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel;
stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two
precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the
main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment
so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what
called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering.
I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before;
the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say,
to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters
afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical;
probably made by hostile contact with other whales; for I have most
happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall
din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous
log--SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! And for years
grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces
by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper
captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with
exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession
for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its
mate for ever sank.
just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy
Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships,
in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were
Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an
guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as
standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
Starbuck. It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a
For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the
cruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near
ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was
intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line
flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for
and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.' 'What for?' says the old
for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see
any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a
along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that
to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard--tell me
that he wouldn't dare to show his face in the admiral's cabin again for
kidnapped, he'd roast for him? There's a governor!"
I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
"Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else?"
fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing
back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep
eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the
from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the
things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively,
for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a
artist--is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
piled away like joists for building houses.
for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing
thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
there. Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle
this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For
in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to
encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell
innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for
a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business
was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen
thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that
the good old way--head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was
all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been
for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it
yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for
or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these
the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is
the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine,
cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his
would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the
mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for
"Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that wounded
With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
for the time. At this juncture the Pequod's keels had shot by the three
could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he seemed quite
me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!"--then
spring--slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads--baked
lose him now--don't oh, DON'T!--see that Yarman--Oh, won't ye pull for
for the honour of old Gayhead? What d'ye say?"
of, "There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with
a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took a
ere the last chance would for ever escape.
But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three
for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more
best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength
bleeding for a considerable period; even as in a drought a river will
But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his
bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he by
strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain
some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for
for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run
one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains."
accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
down, they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again.
mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast,
in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
often stand for each other. "Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though
remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that
claim him for one of our clan.
roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal
Vishnoo himself for our Lord;--Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten
earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale.
for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.
One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the
Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his
to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was this, if I
But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that
waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
That for six thousand years--and no one knows how many millions of ages
many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for
breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm
fetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then
so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or more,
supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs.
Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform
descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For
for two or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to
seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all
with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of
is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,
is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because
the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand in
fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head? For
Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into
this seems an additional argument for the above supposition.
For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect
possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet
thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a great
all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of
respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier
for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.
drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, now,
excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more
numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual
best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months
go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing. Levelling
pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift
slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding,
before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not
those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one
for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the
one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift
way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
and for an instant threatened to swamp us. "Hard down with your tail,
among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more whales
stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for
possible chance of escape was at present afforded us. We must watch for
their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final
Jacob:--a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously
and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet
my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.
and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was cheaply
resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely
search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower
down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental
for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the
who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They fence with
for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not
chase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish
of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the
take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For
Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so,
Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while
many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's
II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases,
where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim
plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line,
Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was
learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,--That as for the boat, he
jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture,
with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the
Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in
of Blackstone. At length one of them, after long scratching about for
all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to
for that, ye lawyers!
is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
"In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan,
ship's bows, "there's a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes
their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
of a little oil for dear charity's sake. For what oil he'll get from
in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get
I'm for it;" and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing
huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper
much. "But what are you holding YOURS for?"
such whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his
heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow
Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all
for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in
small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for
another, without at all blending with it for a time.
sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were it not for
subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for
grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though
amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, used for
mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris is soft,
The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same
old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital.
place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without
being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a collection of
warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance,
finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year's calendar
brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous
chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.
hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath,
plainly looked, Do, for God's sake! All passed in a flash. In less than
him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped
can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for
For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it for
violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
squeezing my co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since by
akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the
time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of
lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally
the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which,
for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th
towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes
That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a lad for a
themselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them--one
are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound
gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.
works." This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his
in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a
Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to
it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such
wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit.
sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not
So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently
guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval,
invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot
rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO,
self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works,
for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long
though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in
sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was
mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for those
it, then! Here's stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then."
snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin
first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly's the word for aye! Adieu,
sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what's the
of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers.
myself. Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity. I can stand
the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my
again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to
mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the
for anybody--except those who are almost hourly used to it, like
whalemen--to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea; for
pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem
Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat's
crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say, I jumped
hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that
we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I
"Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait to
Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
White Whale's malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means
one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a twelvemonth
d'ye see. No possible way for him to digest that jack-knife, and fully
you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the
another one. No more White Whales for me; I've lowered for him once, and
"He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let
though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant
Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the
In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose,
slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.
at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's
bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for
is matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of
touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
St. Pott's, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box
of sperm candles for his trouble--this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he
outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from
we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks'
whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land
a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his
poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their
gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted
For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey
with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought
freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves;
it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that
have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be heedful; for so, in
this our god! That's for us." "Aye, priests--well, how long do ye make
keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at
in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view
such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was
upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of seventy tons for the largest
been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one
plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a
of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the
arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I now saw
added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the
How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a
for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's uncommon personal
capitals. Give me a condor's quill! Give me Vesuvius' crater for an
inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen
for time began with man. Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I
for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are
of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large
gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny
end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for
a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of
gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years
species also is declining. For they are only being driven from
firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for
Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of this: that it is
enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world,
inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while
needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.
why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing
exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as
reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate; though, indeed,
ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, possessed
above hinted casualty--remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted for by
of spirits and of wails. So that, through their zeal for him, they had
provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to
from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary
cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon
deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But
uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For nothing was
this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as
it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding
though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was this half-horrible
unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part
of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the
had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same
LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS
fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and
that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently. Lucky
Measured for a leg! good. Well, it's not the first time. About it!
Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's made in fire must
What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall
pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!
I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for
whole world's books. I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with
the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By
a stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he'll stand
and there's a great cry for life-boats. And here's the heron's leg!
long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts
other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there,
before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for
for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?"
than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks,
and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: "Thou hast
outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of
musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little
puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask
pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he
were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly wondrous and
Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not
the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars
Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
whether they were ready for it yet in that direction.
shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a
called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him.
errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think
he's in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
must be very sad; for look! he's left his tambourine behind;--I found
Lay it across here.--Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock
But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
pronounced himself fit for a fight.
With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific
with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed
these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active
concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but still retained
some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for
Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
for a moment on his hammer; "I am past scorching; not easily can'st thou
"Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these
"What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb,
"Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain;
harpoon for the White Whale?"
"For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
"Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
"No, no--no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,
now for the seizings."
pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy
for their pains.
men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some
storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this
pointing her prow for home.
success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same
make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental
casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were
floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually
full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual
wakes--one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings
Bachelor; but the Bachelor's men never heeding their gaze for the lively
remote associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket
it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales
furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still
"Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild
floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship's
prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high
placed to his eye, he remained in that posture for some moments to
and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself--these passed over
tempest had left for its after sport.
"but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't fight it. You see,
round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all
throat. And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a
the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck--but it's too dark
to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all
braces--though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast
much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts;
masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some
trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now
there! I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic
collar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine
eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I
to it--for they were slack--because some play to the tiller was
the water with some precision again; and the course--for the present,
given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!" the crew singing for joy, that so
its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew
it for itself.
to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
doom,--THAT'S fair for Moby Dick. It's a fair wind that's only fair for
"Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's course to be
thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair
unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
of the crew, is uncertain--he called for linen thread; and moving to the
been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the
ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun
One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could
log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than
thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks
and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I
Innocents--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for
more than once been mistaken for men.
and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for
for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil
"Bring it up; there's nothing else for it," said Starbuck, after a
Now I don't like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it
like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won't put
his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of
the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask
if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for
"Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in
"Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but
Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance
in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
"My boy, my own boy is among them. For God's sake--I beg, I
had but icily received his petition. "For eight-and-forty hours let me
charter your ship--I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it--if
there be no other way--for eight-and-forty hours only--only that--you
there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched
was only solved for him by his chief mate's instinctively adopting the
majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason,
for a protracted three or four years' voyage in some other ship than
as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy,
She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired
"No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
"Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
thee; and if it come to that,--God for ever save thee, let what will
which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of
being's body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by
below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan
whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or whether
the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.
interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail, they
siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel
downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for
he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being
upon the sea for miles and miles,--ahead, astern, this side, and
strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment,
storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
keenly known to me before--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry
that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn
the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my
All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for
reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the
rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant
vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed
Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for
the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and
movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand
succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of
whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a time, lying
intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures
"Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it," said Stubb, showing it.
for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a
hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an
overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
shiver!--How now? Aloft there! D'ye see him? Sing out for every spout,
towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I
"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all
night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush."
by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the
the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of
fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait
And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after
other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for
bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not
against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for
assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
forehead,--a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such
like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him;
for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of
singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from
for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that
sheets!--helm there! steady, steady for your life! I'll ten times girdle
"Great God! but for one single instant show thyself," cried Starbuck;
hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they
to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick--two days he's floated--tomorrow
their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of
eastward for the earliest sun.
again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had
THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has
for that. And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen
"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to
time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and
"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck."
But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the
Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For
hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back
into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for
But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the
been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer
canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the
precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its
"Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer
Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet
not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in
cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!"
now come to her, for the voyage is up."
off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a
thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins
For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The
floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
For additional contact information:
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
